Breaking News: our cosmic visitor massive asteroid 2014 JO25
In our solar system there may be perhaps more than billions of large, stray meteorites that will have serious consequences they must collide with.
Left from the sun's formation and in closed or open orbits, these objects can sometimes cross Earth's path.
With a diameter of 650 meters, the asteroid 2014 JO25 is a visitor, and today at 14:24 it will pass by earth, at its closest point 1,750,000 kilometers away.
As time went on, we started to hear more and more of these types of reports.
The most important reason for this is the developments in observational techniques and instruments.
As a result, we are able to detect previously undetectable small asteroids.
For example, last January a bus-sized asteroid passed by within half the distance between the earth and the moon (~250,000 km).
And more importantly, the asteroid can be detected a few days before it passes.
So, more cosmic buses will come to us.
Just imagine: what would you do if you learned that a 20 meter diameter asteroid would fall in the middle of your neighborhood?
In fact, an asteroid this size wouldn't wipe out your neighborhood, but it would probably blow up all the buildings' windows.
It would have been due to the shock waves of the asteroid exploding in the atmosphere.
For example, the asteroid that landed in Russia in 2013 was of this size, and the windows of a couple of buildings in cities were enough to explode.
However, if you had an asteroid targeting a 100-meter diameter neighborhood, I would recommend getting 50 miles away.
Specific criteria such as an asteroid's size and collision angle are factors that will determine the depth of its crater and the damage caused by its impact.
Let's take a look at a few scenarios from the European Space Agency's simulations.
If an asteroid 100 meters in diameter has an angle of 45 degrees and collides with the earth at a speed of 60 km/s, it creates a crater 250 meters deep and 1200 meters in diameter.
The collision would be equivalent to an earthquake of six on the Richter scale and, even if you were 10 km away from the point of impact, your body would be third-degree burns.
And 50 km away there is broken window glass.
